you guys going to make another movie
where they're friends, then they stop
being friends, and in the end they're
friends again. And [laughter] I remember
like being like, "Oh, yeah, that's that
is every movie we've ever made."
[music]
I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro and today I'm in
Los Angeles to interview Seth [music]
Rogan. At 44, Seth Rogan seems to be
having the opposite [music] of a midlife
crisis.
>> Excuse me, everyone. Um, I got a bit of
a bummer of an announcement to make, but
we craft
>> his series, The Studio, which he
created, [music]
writes, produces, directs, and stars in,
just won 13 Emmys. Plus, his production
company, Point Gray Pictures, has been
banging out the hits.
And his new movie, The Invite, which is
directed by Olivia Wild, has been
generating a lot of buzz. That is so
nice. Thank you.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, say thank you, Joe.
>> Thank you.
>> So, I wanted to talk to Rogan about how
he went from being [music] a teenage
actor
>> I feel odd
>> to one of the most successful,
wide-ranging, and [music] prolific
careers in Hollywood.
>> We would skip school to write Superbat.
>> Here's my conversation with Seth Rogan.
>> Seth Rogan, thank you so much for being
here.
>> Thank you for having me. [laughter]
You were recently just in can. Um,
[laughter]
>> which you go to often any
>> I've never been to can. [laughter]
>> What?
>> No, never. That was my first time.
>> I just assumed. I actually didn't know
one way or the other.
>> No, I'd never been. Why? Yeah. I don't
generally make the kind of films that go
to film festivals and have [laughter]
that type of attention or focus in any
way. And so, no, I'd never made anything
that that was at can before. Yeah. Oh
>> yeah. It It's funny because,
you know, we very luckily have had very
like I say we like my me and my group I
guess the royal we I'm Canadian close
enough. Um but you know we've had very
long lovely careers where up until very
recently we didn't really do any of this
stuff, festivals, awards, things like
that. And I think honestly in our heads
we kind of assumed it which is that that
was not what our careers held and we
were really at at peace with that. And
so now that I am starting to get to go
to festivals like can and and see see
it. It is funny that there's like this
entire other side of the industry that
has sort of just been withheld from from
me for the last 20 years. [laughter]
and and and [gasps]
I never really uh I I I never thought
about it that much cuz I always just
thought like ah that's like that's for
those types of movies and I don't really
make those types of movies. But now it
is amazing like the level of industry
and infrastructure and sort of pomp and
circumstance that I had nothing to do
with all these years. [laughter]
Just felt like a lot of parties I have I
was never invited to until now. So uh
yeah, it was really exciting. You know,
>> I find it very comforting that there's a
velvet rope that you were not [laughter]
allowed to go by.
>> There's plenty more. Trust me, even now
that I'm here, there's many more velvet
ropes that I have [laughter] not I'm not
invited to beyond.
>> I have this theory that there's always
another room that you just don't get
into.
>> I remember as a kid hearing like like uh
I can't remember who was saying it. It
was Jud or Gary Shanley, one of these
older comedians I was hanging out with.
It was like you work your way up through
Hollywood and eventually you are led
into a room alone with Jack Nicholson
and that's like that's the end
[laughter] of the line like it's just
it's just you and him in a small room
together and that's when you're like I
did it. [laughter]
>> So you do have another film um which is
the invite and
you play Joe.
Joe is an angry person um whose
long-term marriage to Angela, played by
Olivia Wild, who also directs the movie,
is not in a good place. Um I saw this
recent interview where Olivia Wild said,
"You are both non-con confrontational
people, but in this role you accessed,
and this is a quote, your deep rage,
[laughter] and I want to understand what
Seth Rogan's deep rages. Tell me what
she meant."
>> Um I mean, I don't know if that I'm glad
she thought it way, if that was helpful.
uh for the film, you know. I think yeah,
it was,
you know, as we were rehearsing and
working on the script leading up to
shooting, it just seemed like the the
more like palpably uncomfortable
the the couple was, the more
uncomfortable the audience would be, the
more uncomfortable this other couple
would be entering this environment. And
I had just been out with couples where
you just see like they don't like each
other. And it's really unpleasant to be
around. And there is this like simmering
undercurrent of anger. And in every
moment where you would choose to forgive
or excuse a person that you actually
cared deeply about, like these people
choose not to forgive and excuse their
their partner and they choose to make a
big deal out of it or to use it as an
opportunity to to make a dig at their
partner or say something hurtful or feel
superior or something like that. and and
those are people I'd been I I mean and
continue to be around in my [laughter]
life and and and I've always found it
incredibly unpleasant. And to me that
resentment was something that I thought
would be very, you know, like additive
to the film and would would create like
a tone and environment that that served
the the the film. You know,
>> it did make me wonder what causes you to
feel deep rage or are you this person
that does not feel that?
>> No, I get really angry sometimes.
[laughter]
Um, and it's mostly
I think it's evolved over the years.
[laughter]
What what makes me angry? Like
you know I used to really get angry
about
I mean like for lack of a better
expression what I would say like people
[__] with my [__] like like when I
was doing like a creative endeavor and
and I felt like like the powers that be
were just like messing it up for no good
reason and were were obstructing me from
expressing what I wanted to express and
what I felt would would would create a a
great product ultimately and they were
interrupting that process or or again
just complicating it or making it
needlessly painful and and that was the
thing that used to really enrage me um
more privately, you know, but I at
times, you know, I bet people I've
worked with over the years would say
that I I'm not always 100% pleasant 100%
[laughter] of the time when when it
comes to those types of situations, you
know.
>> Um,
>> but honestly over the years I've seen
that we very rarely lose those arguments
and we almost always get to do what we
want creatively and and and there's a a
number of instances I could probably
count on one hand where we've actually
like been forced to do a thing that we
really don't want to do creatively. And
I think over time I've realized it's
like not worth getting that angry about
that stuff anymore because it just the
it rarely manifests into a thing that I
actually don't like. It's more the fear
of it would enrage me, you know. Um
but now I think as I've gotten older
it's more like it's more it's much more
directed inwards. It's much more I get
mad at myself and I get disappointed in
myself or I will do a thing that I don't
feel like I did as well as I could or I
will feel like I'm spinning out over
something or ruminating on something or
or fixating on a thing and then I'll get
mad at myself for removing my myself
from the day-to-day
present experience I should be having
because I'm somewhere else fixated on
some dumb thing. You know what I mean?
that that is usually my own doing
something that I felt like I didn't do
well enough, something that I had said
that I wish I hadn't said or something
like that. Um, that is much more where
my anger lies these days is like at my
own [laughter] at my own behavior and at
my own uh yeah at at at myself which is
probably not healthy but that's you know
I'm doing my best over here. I go to
therapy. [laughter]
Let me um [clears throat]
can you give me an example of a moment
where something got intervened in that
you felt did a disservice to your
vision?
>> It's been a long time honestly like and
and we've the whole reason we became
producers and made a production company
which was like 10 years ago at this
point I think maybe more was to like
insulate ourselves and and really try to
protect ourselves from this from that
happening you know. Um
>> and so Good work cannot come from by
committee. Is that like
>> No, I have a very strong committee like
and and I I have a partner specifically
like I I I I am amazed that good work
comes from any singular person, you
know. [laughter] Um I need sounding
boards, you know, and
>> you know, I'm I'm I'm filming the studio
right now, so I'm very like in it. But
like I just see that like you know the
team we have on set, our
cinematographer, our editor, our
writers, the the production designer,
the costume people, the camera operator,
like these people make the show better.
I think at the end of the day, and I say
this all the time, like the hardest part
about being a director for me is when is
when you are the only one who thinks a
certain thing and when everyone's
looking at you like you're crazy and you
have to be like, "No, this is what we're
doing." Cuz ultimately, like I'm the one
who has to live with this at the end of
the day. And if I don't do the thing
that I really think is right, even
though everyone's looking at me like, I
don't think this is right. And 99% of
the time the committee's in league and
then 1% of the time me and my partner
are standing there and everyone's
looking at us like we're crazy and we're
like, "This is what we have to do." Um,
and to me, like the thing I hate the
most is when I make a thing and it isn't
quite what everyone hoped and someone
who was there is like, you know, I I
kind of maybe thought that maybe this
wasn't going to work. And that's when
I'm like, say something. Like, you were
right. Say something. Not like, I wish
you had said that because you would have
made me see something that I wasn't
seeing. And it and and if you had said
that then this would actually more
reflect what I want to be putting out in
the world, not less reflect that. You
know what I mean? And so that is
something I like just recognized over
the years like is really valuable like
to me personally, you know?
>> You know what fills me with rage?
Someone coming and saying, "I told you
so."
>> Yeah. [laughter]
I don't like that either. funnily
[clears throat] enough. Um, just to
return to the movie briefly, um, the
movie's funny, tender, very dramatic.
Um, as a long-term married person,
>> yeah,
>> it brought up a lot of familiar themes.
I was saying to my producer, also called
Seth, by the way, um, that the
>> I have to fight him now.
>> Yeah, you do. [laughter] WE WERE SAYING
THERE HAS TO BE A CASE.
>> IT'S a Highlander. Yeah.
every time I meet one. [laughter]
>> That opening scene where uh you and
Olivia are fighting bitterly over the
dinner party, she is throwing for the
neighbors. She'd forgotten to tell your
character about it. Um I had had that
very same argument that week with with
my uh husband.
>> There you go.
>> Yeah. Um
>> were there things in the movie that hit
home for you? Obviously, you've been
with your partner Lauren Miller for a
long time. What did it bring up for you
and and also your your fellow actors as
you were portraying this very
complicated emotional dynamic?
>> I mean, we we we we rehearsed the movie
for a little while going into it and the
movie was like completely rewritten, I
would say, in like the weeks leading up
to shooting. Um, huge ideas that are in
the movie were not there at all when we
were when we started the rehearsal. Um,
and so the movie actually changed a lot
as we were um, leading into filming. And
that's not uncommon. And
what's funny with a movie like this and
you're rehearsing and the actors are
there and the writers are there and and
you're talking about relationships and
and and at some point you kind of have
to
define what in according to this film at
least is a good relationship and what is
a bad relationship. You know, and people
really bring their own personal stuff
into those definitions. You know what I
mean? And what you very quickly see is
that, oh, like what I view as a bad
relationship is not what these people
necessarily view as a bad relationship.
Or maybe she agrees with me, but maybe
they have a very this person does not
agree with me, and they view what I
would view as completely unacceptable to
be to be normal in a relationship and
things like that. So, as we were
rehearsing and writing, like I I
remember feeling like I could really
confidently speak about what a very good
relationship was like and one that had
been good for a very long time.
Unafraid.
>> I mean, I think it's a couple who is
nice to each other and who loves each
other and who goes out of their way to
excuse the other person rather than to
find things that they hate about the
other person. I'm not blaming it like
but to me it comes down to like
like a caring you know like and like a a
a tenderness and a niceness that is born
out of a desire to do that for the other
person which I think is also very
important is like you have to want to
love your partner and you have to want
them to love you back you know and I
think you have to be intimate with your
partner and sexually attracted to your
partner and I think they and that should
be returned as well and I think and the
movie really gets into that and so very
quickly me and the other cast members
and the writers [laughter] found
ourselves having [gasps]
what maybe we didn't intend to be
incredibly revealing conversations but
what ultimately you couldn't you
couldn't hide were incredibly revealing
conversations cuz ultimately you're
arguing oh I think this is this is
healthy or this is unhealthy you know um
>> are you just are you saying you know you
now know more about Penelopey Cruz's
marriage
>> yes exactly [laughter] is that what
we're circling around here.
>> I do know Javier Bardam had back
problems that [laughter] that were
similar to my characters,
which was [clears throat] a funny, you
know, again, [laughter] much more than I
needed to know about him necessarily.
Um, and she does think it had to do with
stress and emotion more more so than
than a physical [laughter] ailment. Um,
and so yeah, so all that stuff kind of
comes out. So Eststera Prell um the
relationship psychotherapist and
bestselling author was a consultant on
the film. Was she mediating something? I
mean what were you guys having group
therapy?
>> No. I mean honestly from my experience
we just talked about her a lot like and
and I think there was a point where like
we were kind of dancing around just like
using her philosophies in the film. And
honestly I think maybe maybe that made
them go to her and be like will you be a
consultant on the film? And cuz cuz I
think there was some fear at first of
like are we are we overlapping and I I I
remember being like just embrace it like
like we are saying what she says that is
the point of this. We agree with it. We
all agree with it.
>> What is the it? the it is this I think
to me it's this very simple idea of that
you have many relationships throughout
your life as you change and you age and
and your perspective [gasps] changes and
and and sometimes your partner changes
with you and you have several
relationships with the same person that
have new parameters and new boundaries
and new new new guidelines that are
reflective of who you are as you become
different people and sometimes you
become incompatible with that person and
and you start a relationship with a new
person and it just it just really rang
true and it's something I've seen in in
couples that I know and something I've
seen in my own relationship like you
know me and my me and my wife started
dating when we were like 23 years old or
something like that you know and so
we're obviously very different people
than we were in our early 20s uh now
that we're in our mid-4s but but we grew
in a way that we stayed very compatible
with one another, you know, and I've
seen other couples
>> not have that happen, you know.
>> I'm glad you brought this up because I
have a theory about your relationship.
>> Great. [laughter]
Well, I saw you talk about your wife on
Howard Stern, and you told several
anecdotes that basically boil down to,
"I was on drugs and my wife encouraged
me to go on LIVE TELEVISION, GET
[laughter]
GET ON STAGE WITH MADONNA,
do something [laughter] potentially
publicly risky, but very fun."
>> And I just loved that [laughter] because
this is clearly someone that is
>> sort of the opposite of trying to shut
you down or you know, circumscribe you.
She wants you to be full Seth. Um,
>> she does. Yes. And at times will also
tell me maybe it's too much Seth.
[laughter] I'd say in a very good way.
Um, and it's honestly like when we were
making the neighbors movies that was
like a lot of the dynamic between me and
Rose Burn came from conversations with
me and Lorie.
>> Welcome to the neighborhood. That's the
gist of all
>> where it was like we
>> she's not like the naggy woman who's
trying to shut down the fun like she's
she me and her love doing the same stuff
and and and if anything yeah she's like
encouraging it you know and so we've
always I think in a great way like
fundamentally been on the same page as
one another and like to do the same
actual things with our day as one
another which I think [gasps]
is also just a thing that like you see
is like oh this couple like just doesn't
want to spend their day doing the same
thing anymore. And then they used to and
now they don't. And now like she wants
to do this and he wants to do this and
and and and they might still care about
each other, but it's just like what they
want to do all day is completely
different, you know? Um and we like
doing the same things, which is also
good, I think. [laughter]
>> What do you wish she'd stopped you from
doing?
>> Um nothing. If anything, she has
successfully stopped me from doing
things I shouldn't have done. [laughter]
which which is good. She she's she has a
very good track record with [laughter]
that.
>> So you often play with thwarted desire
in your projects. Um you know
dude wants a hot girl isn't in her
league. Um and that frustration is often
sort of comedic and played for comedic
effect.
>> Could you give me your theory of what
makes desire funny? Um, I mean to me
it's more just like when a character is
is getting in the their own way of what
they want is the funniest thing for a
character to do. And when a character
fundamentally has a personality that
does not allow them to easily achieve
what it is that they want and and they
are their own worst enemy and they they
are doing things that are making their
own situation harder and worse. Um, that
to me is the funniest thing and I think
it does come from something I relate to
deeply, which is like the thing that
makes you the happiest also is the most
painful thing in your life at times, you
know. Um, and I think like Larry Sanders
show is the thing that me and Ev and my
partner like reference a lot, you know,
and and I think that is like
>> fundamentally
a incredibly great comedic character in
that like
>> he's constantly trying to be someone he
isn't. He's constantly trying to be
[gasps]
nice with cool cool cool to the
employees that he works for or works
with, but he just is too wound up and
and uh to to allow it to happen. And he
wants to think he can he can date a
woman who's more famous than he is, but
he just can't. And he wants to think he
can allow his sidekick to to to be
funny, but he just his ego won't allow
it. And so it's sort of this like
conflict between like ego, you know,
like like what the worst parts of your
ego make you do versus what your purest
desires like want you to do, you know?
[snorts]
>> Okay, this is kind of a little bit of a
silly question, but it is something that
I've always been curious about. Um, in a
lot of your films, there isn't some big
pretty woman moment though um for the
dude when you get a makeover and you're
suddenly like pumped up. you always end
up getting the girl. Um, but you don't
get the glow up. There isn't like this
this [laughter] big moment where all of
a sudden, you know, you're you're kind
of rip off your shirt and there you are.
[laughter]
>> And, you know, I was thinking like
Longot with Charize Theren and and all
these things. Is being funnier sexier
than being hot? [laughter]
>> I mean, I hope so, but no. The answer is
no. [laughter]
Being hot is better.
[laughter]
It can It can help. But
>> if you think about the characters, I'm
not personalizing this. [laughter]
>> Um, it's funny like when we were making
movies when I was younger, that the joke
I was always making as we were making
them is like, oh, like my guy's going
from wearing like a t-shirt to a to a
polo shirt. Like that was always like
the arc. like, "Oh, he got a button he
got a buttoned up shirt." Like, "Wow."
[laughter] Um, and even then I could
recognize kind of like the the silliness
of that and how superficial it all was,
you know? So I think more so as we got
older and we were you know making more
of these types of movies like that more
became I think the idea is like it
shouldn't be some like superficial thing
you know a movie like longshot it should
be like fundamental character things
that are evolving and changing and
they're influencing one another in a way
that isn't you know just how they look
and dress but it is more like as people
they are enriching one another you know
what I mean
>> since I've known you you've cared about
this and now you're just going to get
rid of it.
>> I'm trying to compromise here for a
bigger goal.
>> And so yeah, I think that's kind of more
where that type of thing came from. But
like [snorts] truthfully, I don't make
that many like I haven't made a romantic
thing in quite a long time.
>> That's [clears throat] true.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> Yeah. It's I think cuz I'm in a very
good relationship and have been in for a
long time. It's like not that creatively
interesting to me to like show two
people falling in love with one another,
[laughter] like it's not where my brain
goes, you know? Um, and I think also
when we were first coming up especially,
it was like every movie had a romantic
storyline or like conflict between the
main couple that had to be resolved in
some way. And and and I think that also
just and I remember we were making
Pineapple Express like we sort of have
like a really silly ridiculous story
line with me and and and like the woman,
you know, uh character and it's like not
even remotely a romantic story line.
It's um it's sort of like this
disastrous thing, you know. And I
remember at the time everyone's like it
has to be romantic. Like that's what a
movie has. And and we were like no like
that that's not we don't care that much
about that. and and Knocked Up like was
like all about that and Longot was like
it was like a romantic comedy, you know.
Um
>> but I think yeah, to me it was it was
either more interesting to like fully
explore this dynamic or not explore it
at all and not have it be like an
obligatory part of our things. And it's
why honestly as we're making the studio
now, it's like there's like no romantic
story lines on the show unless we're not
really like
>> a little a little
>> a little kind of but like not really. I
mean, your dating life is a part of the
comedic
>> stuff. Yes. It's in one episode and it's
like uh and the whole joke is that I
can't date. You know what I mean? And so
other than that, it's not like a thing
we're tracking is like Matt's Matt's
dating life. Like it's sort of like a
non there's sort of like an asexuality
to the show [laughter] in a weird way,
which which to me is fine.
>> It's interesting.
>> It is. [laughter]
>> Um you got to work with one of the
greats, Katherine O'Hara, um in the
studio.
Um,
how did you experience that loss? Did
you have any particular memories of
working with her? Any good Katherine
O'Hara stories?
>> Oh, I mean so many. Like when we
first conceived of the show, like she
was the one that we wanted on it more
than anybody. Like and and and to me and
Evan, she was like a god to us,
especially as Canadians. Like I mean I'm
not joking like Home Alone is the movie
that made me want to make movies and
like and and her being in it and and
then I as we got older we just became
obsessed with like Christopher guest
films and Waiting for Guffman and and
things like that and and and Beetlejuice
was one of my favorite movies ever
growing up. So to us, she was just like
as funny as as a person could be, you
know, and then I mean getting to work
with her on the first season like it
really like pushed us to want to do
right by her and to want to make the
show like live up to her standards and
what we felt she deserved to be.
>> And she and she plays your sort of
mentor in this.
>> Yeah. and she plays my mentor and kind
of a maternal figure to me which she
sort of was at times as we were making
the show and would would would send us
notes on the scenes would completely
rewrite the scenes say in like the most
Canadian way ever. She would send me an
inant email being like, "Here's some
thoughts." And then would be a
completely rewritten version of the
scene. And it would be like, "Take it or
leave it." [laughter] And it was like
such a funny Canadian way of being like,
"This is better. You should do this."
But never said with those words, you
know. Um, and then it was just
incredibly sad. We just start to hear
she was sick and we'd see her and we
heard she wasn't doing well. And as we
were kind of nearing the second season,
you know, it was we would just talk to
her and it was she would clear her
health was not great, but she really
wanted to come back and intended to come
back and and I think it was a real like
goal for her to come back um and keep
doing the show. And I think she was
really looking forward to coming back
and doing the show. Um
and
and and honestly in the back of our
heads we were like we hope she can but I
don't we don't know if she will be able
to. And so it is this kind of very sad
thing where like kind of creatively
you're kind of making like in the back
of your head these contingency plans but
you kind of don't want to think about it
but your brain is kind of telling you
one thing and you're trying not to
believe it in some ways you know. Um,
yeah. And then we heard she passed away
one morning and it was the first week of
shooting the show and it was [gasps]
really really sad and
and we were all together, the whole crew
and everyone loved her very much and the
cast and we kind of didn't know what to
do and and we just kept shooting and we
were like I think the idea of like
making each other laugh and being
together [gasps and sighs]
felt
preferable to anything else we could
have done that day, you know?
Yeah,
>> I'm sorry.
So, um
I I want to go back a little bit um to
your upbringing. You grew up in
Vancouver.
>> I sure did.
>> One of the seminal things about you is
obviously you started in comedy really
young. You started playing standup in
clubs at 13.
>> Yeah.
>> And your mom was really encouraging.
>> Uhhuh.
>> She would let you stay out, stay
[snorts] up all night working on your
routines. And I think that's pretty
unusual for a parent. Were there ever
moments of tension with her about it
that you wanted to do things that she
wasn't letting you or was she just
letting you kind of open that door and
walk through it?
>> I mean, she was there all the time. So,
it wasn't that it wasn't like
unsupervised freedom, you know what I
mean? Like, so at once it didn't, it's
funny like freedom is not the word I
would use to describe it. It was more
like she was just very supportive of a
goal I had. It didn't feel like my mom
was just like taking me to comedy clubs
to hang out. Like I was there to do
something, you know? And and um
and the comedians were old and I didn't
like hanging out with them that much
honestly. Like they it was fine to hang
out with them, but I wasn't like I want
to be friends with these guys. Like I
was I was I was a teen like I I had
teenager friends, you know what
[laughter] I mean? Like and every time I
did hang out with them socially, it was
weird. And so I I that wasn't like the
goal either. Like it wasn't like I
wanted to hang out with these old guys
and get drunk or anything like that.
Like it it more felt like I was really
like ravenously pursuing a thing and my
parents recognized like I was I was like
unique in a way that I was like pursuing
this thing in a very serious way. You
know,
>> you use the word ravenously. That's such
an interesting word. Is that is that how
it felt?
>> Yeah. I think for sure one of the
reasons that I I think especially from a
young age like managed to work a lot was
because I like yeah had like a a
[clears throat] like a real hunger for
it and and was willing to really put in
a huge amount of time and and energy
um in a way that I you know I I assume
maybe like teenage athletes would you
[laughter] know but for me it was it was
this you know, and I loved it. And like
when me and Evan started writing Superb
Bad together when we were 13 or 14, like
it's all I wanted to do. Like I wanted
to like like I would we would skip
school to write Super Bad. And I think
even my parents could probably see like,
oh, like this is he really likes this
and he's really motivated to try to
succeed at this. Not in like a cute kid
way, but in a way that felt real, I
think. You know,
>> do you look back and think it's weird
that you and Evan connected at 13 in
this? No, but and that it has just been
this incredible partnership. It just
seems to me that two boys who
connected so fundamentally and had so
much talent were able to
be at the same place at the same time
and and keep in touch.
>> Yeah, we marvel at it all the time. like
it's not lost on us that it's sort of a
mira like a miraculous thing. I think it
was like two people with like a little
spark met, but then together we became
like a a singular kind of creative
entity in a lot of ways and like we're
brain our brains weren't even like fully
formed when we met. like our brains I
like our creative brains really formed
around one another and like I I I think
that's not like any small part of why we
work so well together and why we
continue to work well together is
because we started like a very young age
together and [snorts] there became like
a cohesion and thought that was really
like it's impossible to replicate I
think because like we truly grew up with
each other and watched movies together
all all the time would talk about them.
First started to learn to write dialogue
together and to experiment with that
together and to try to structure a story
together. And so inherently like what I
think is good story structure is what he
thinks is good story structure. What I
think is good character development he
thinks is good character development and
what I think is a good way to write a
scene he thinks is a good way to write a
scene because we we we came up with it
together. Hm.
You ended up moving to LA um at 16 to
star in Freaks and Geeks after an open
casting call in Vancouver um uh where
you got the part. Um and you know, one
of the things that is also really
interesting is that you were started
financially supporting your family at
16.
>> Yeah.
>> Do you think that responsibility shaped
your work ethic? I mean, you you talk
about like absolutely loving what you
were doing, but that also feels like it
might have been,
>> you know,
>> for sure. Yes. something [laughter] that
felt like
>> I think I very much had like a fear of
going broke and a fear of not having
money and a lot of my friends were much
more well off than we were and I would
just see I would go to their houses and
it was [gasps]
you know it was like yeah it was like a
real house and like I grew up in like a
co-op like you know like in sort of you
know like a little like row you know in
like a little housing community
basically it was like somewhere between
like an apartment and a and a condo I
guess you know and Um, and yeah, I I for
sure and I and we were never like, you
know, we weren't like going hungry or
anything, but but I could just see I was
>> in a very different financial situation
than everyone that I was kind of in my
community, you know? I'm sure that had
something to do with uh, you know, my
drive from a young age.
>> Did has that shaped how you think about
money and success? Now,
>> I think if anything, and this is
probably not like the healthiest way to
approach it, is like I think I spent so
much time worried about money when I was
younger that now
that I make more money than I ever
thought I would. Like [laughter]
I think like the gift I've given to
myself is I never think about it. Like I
have no
>> I almost never think about how much
money I'm spending or making. I don't
fetishize money. I don't care if other
people are making more money than me,
doing the exact same thing as me. I
don't have like an ego about it. I'm
making more than than I ever thought I
would. And so I see other actors who are
very competitive. I've had conversations
with other actors about it, you know,
and and and that has just not been my
approach to it. And as far as spending
money goes, like it's again not a thing.
I see rich people who are like I'm like
you're focused on that amount of money
like like the amount of stress you are
causing yourself over an amount of money
that will never impact your life in any
way, shape, or form is insane to me. And
so I I think like the gift I've given
myself is I I truly spend as little time
thinking about it as humanly possible
and as little time trying to focus on it
or fixate on it. I I try not to be
overly principled about it. If I feel
like I'm getting charged more because of
who I am, I'm like, "Yep, that's the way
if you're going to charge anyone more,
it's probably me." You know what I mean?
And and and that's the way the world
works. I try not to be philosophically,
you know, uh, up in arms about my own,
[clears throat] you know, financial
situation in any way. I don't care if
I'm getting ripped off a little. I don't
care if I'm overpaying for [laughter]
things a little, honestly. Like, I'm not
again. And I'm around people all the
time who are always who are rich who are
trying to get deals and trying to get a
break and trying to get like they trying
to feel like they are makes them feel
special or something more. It's funny
like there's this uh I read this book on
I read that going clear book really
every once in a while you know like you
read like one sentence and it like snaps
your whole perspective into place a
little bit. And I remember reading that
book about Scientology and there was
just one sentence in it about how famous
people tend to do a thing where if they
aren't treated in a certain way, they it
makes them think they're not as talented
as they wish they were. And it's like if
I go to a restaurant and I have to wait
20 minutes for a table, instead of them
just seating me right away as as they
are the famous person next to me, is it
because I'm not as am I not as talented
as I thought I was? Am I not as good as
I thought I was? If I'm, you know, if
I'm trying to get into a party and and
and they don't just let me in and I have
to wait in line, like, does that mean
I'm not as good a writer as I thought I
was? If I'm not getting a deal, if I'm
not getting the best hotel room and I go
next door and and and someone has a
nicer hotel room than me on the press
tour, does that mean that I am not as
good an actor as I thought I was? And I
think that is how a lot of famous people
interpret how they're treated. and they
think that if they're not getting the
best treatment, it they aren't as
skilled as they wish they were, as they
thought they were. And that was a thing
that I realized when I read that. It's
like, oh, it it is tapping into some
deep part of me that makes me worried
I'm not as talented as I as I as I want
to be or as I wish I was or or And
that's it. And and and cuz that's like
the thing you fear the most and is the
most potentially painful. How did you
work through that? How did you Because
obviously you said you felt that at some
point and then it changed for you.
>> Honestly, as soon as I read that one
sentence, I it it it started to shift
for me and I started to
much more easily identify in myself when
that was happening and and I was able to
sort of I think shift my behavior pretty
quickly in the wake of that.
>> Yeah.
>> Um once you've moved out of that, how do
you define your success? How do you what
are the metrics by which you say you
know what this is good I did well I'm
okay
>> um I mean I wish it had nothing to do
with how the work was received but it it
for sure doesn't [laughter]
like that that is definitely a part of
it you know um
>> obviously
>> obviously and and and I think that is
the thing that most artists feel the
most conflict about is like
external validation versus like did I do
what I wanted to do? But the truth is if
my work isn't received well then I then
I didn't do what I wanted [laughter] to
do cuz cuz I want people to like what I
do and to enjoy it. And especially when
you're making comedy, which I think is
the hardest thing to make in a lot of
ways because you you are you are you are
announcing that you are going for a
specific reaction. And with a dramatic
film, you're not really saying that.
you're you're kind of saying like, you
know, we hope you find it insightful or
interesting or meaningful or sad or
cathartic, but with a comedy, you're
saying like, I want you to laugh, and if
you don't, I've failed. And and it's
also the making of it to me. Like, that
has to go a certain way. And and and
that has to be a certain process, I
think, in order for the work to be
successful. And I think um like the the
daytoday of it has to be,
you know, cohesive to to to what I feel
that should be in order for me to think
the work is good. I think
>> when I look at the studio, you are the
creator, the producer, the director. You
help write it and you star in it.
>> So it is really a Seth [laughter]
Rogan production in every possible way
that it could be. Yeah.
>> Um, and then just to use, you know, the
film that you're currently in, um,
you're just acting and obviously you
helped craft the character and the
dynamics, but it's not you don't have
the same kind of responsibility.
>> No, my name is on it one time.
>> Yeah. So, can you parse that out for me
in terms of that idea of getting
satisfaction or having it reflect
yourself? How do you differentiate
between those two different
>> um things?
>> I mean the the truth is like I for me it
is much more engaging to do what I'm
doing on the studio. Like I I greatly
prefer to act and write and direct and
it and it's really hard and taxing and
[laughter]
it takes a lot of me but I genuinely
love it and I never feel like I am
>> doing more of what I should and could be
doing from like a creative standpoint
than when I'm doing all those things.
and and when I'm on the set of the
studio and I'm it I I I I appreciate the
the crushing pressure and the focus and
and what is required of me in order to
do all those jobs well. And when I am
able to actually do them all, well, I
feel a level level of creative
satisfaction and gratification that I I
will never get from from just doing one
of those things, you know? And so if I'm
going to act in a thing, it has to be a
thing that I feel like I would really
love the product of a movie that if I
saw it, I was like, "Oh, like that's the
exact type of movie I love to watch."
And and and then and the Fablemen,
Steven Spielberg, etc.
>> Yes. A thing like that. You're like, of
course, I'm going to work with Stephen
Spielberg and and and it'll be
educational and and and I and I then
make it put it on myself to really like
extract everything I can from from the
experience as well. And and even if I'm
acting for an hour a day, I I I'm on set
all day and I and I I literally stood
beside him, just asked him questions. I
would bring up scenes from his movies on
YouTube and just be like, "Explain to me
how you did this. What? How? What did
you think of how technically did you do
it? And he loved it. And I
>> really
>> Yeah. And I did that and and I was just
stood beside him all day asking him
questions about how he filmed his movies
and how he conceived them, how he
blocked them, how he storyboards, how
he, you know, like I think what I
learned about blocking on the Fablemans
was like directly put in the studio and
how to move the actors around and move
the camera around the the characters and
how to make it dynamic. even a scene
where people are at a dinner table
talking and like all that I was like,
"Oh, I'm going to absorb all of this
from from Stephen Spielberg if I can."
>> So, the way I read your um onscreen and
off-screen history, as we've sort of
discussed, it's sort of a testament to
male friendship. Um there's Jed Appatau,
of course, who hired you for Freaks and
Geeks, and then you met a whole bunch of
buddies through that. um Jason Seagull,
James Franco, and of course you've had
the same writing partner.
>> Yeah.
>> Evan Goldberg as we've discussed. Um
I asked you earlier what makes a good
relationship. What makes a good male
friendship?
>> [laughter]
>> Um, I think the same things as any other
dynamic, you know, like um like I found
with, you know, Evan and and the people,
you know, I tend to work with my close
friends. Not all of them. I have very
close friends from growing up who I
don't work with. Um, but I think,
you know, I think like a desire to
be good to one another, which again
sounds [laughter] intuitive, I guess,
but I think when I look at people who
have bad relationships and bad dynamics,
like that's the thing I notice is just
like they don't seem to want to be nice
to each other and they seem to be
looking for every reason to not be nice
to each other. And I think it comes down
to like
[clears throat] do you just do you like
this person, you know? And I come from a
a world Yeah. where it's like it was not
like a macho sportsoriented
like environment like you know I come
from a world where like everyone's you
know parents were in therapy and and you
know like I'm from the I'm from the
Pacific Northwest. you know, we were
ahead of the curve on a lot of that
stuff in the ' 80s and '9s. And so, I
think like
I come from a group of friends who were
very like communicative and open and not
afraid of sort of sharing what they were
feeling with one another.
>> Why do you think that version of male
friendship translated so well on screen?
Me and Evan still marvel that like Super
Bad is still remotely
not just like accepted in today's
society, but it's a thing like kids
still really seem to watch. And like
just like when we were young, we would
all watch we would watch Fast Times and
things like that. Like it seems like
>> Superb has somehow like filled the slot
in many ways of like the high school
movie you you watch and relate to when
you are in high school, you know?
>> All right. You look like a future
pedophile in this picture. Number one.
Number two, it doesn't even have a first
name. It just says Mcloven.
>> What? What name? What name?
>> Who are you? Seal.
>> And I think part of it is because like
it is
it is about exploring
kind [snorts] of being vulnerable with
your friends, you know, and and that I
think is is a coming of age thing like
in and of its own right, you know. And I
remember
when I I was moving to LA. I was I did a
bunch of shrooms with my friends. I was
16 years old and we were all at their
house. We were at one of my friends
houses and it was like the sun was
coming up and I was laying on the couch
and my friend Fogle who Mcloven is based
on was was there laying on the couch
beside me the other like like we were it
was like a sleepover and we were kind of
you know um and I remember just being
like I'm so terrified to like move to
Los Angeles to do this show and I'm not
going to see you guys anymore and I'm
have no I don't know anybody out there
and and he was like yeah man like high
school ends next year for us too like I
don't know where any of are going to
college, if we're going to be friends
anymore, if any of this is going to
happen. And like it it it really and it
felt like a big moment and it felt like
the first time any of us had really
acknowledged to one another like how
much we cared about one another and how
afraid we would be without one another,
you know? And I think that's like a
feeling especially as high school ends
and you're kind of going your separate
ways. For me, it was to go work, but it
it was no different than if I was going
to a college and all my friends were
going to a different one, you know. Um,
and I think that feeling, a little
different, but [laughter] for all, you
know, for logistically it was very
similar, you know. Um, and and I think
that feeling was what we really tried to
put into the movie was this feeling of
>> it's, you know, not that high school's
easy, but there's
>> you're on the cusp of something. you're
on the cusp of something unknown. And I
think that was
however we were able to like bottle that
feeling and put it into the movie seems
to resonate.
>> I mean, one interesting thing about your
character in the invite is that he has
no friends.
And I mean, it just seems pretty
reflective of what's happening in the
culture today more broadly with men. You
know, the loneliness epidemic
>> for sure. And I I just wonder is
Hollywood doing a good job of showing
positive male friendships the way it
used to.
>> I don't know [laughter]
because I think about that's what I'm
saying. I was thinking about Super Bad
and then I just it just really
>> when I thought about your character in
the invite and just what we're seeing in
the culture at large and as someone who
has really channeled male representation
on screen I I you know I mean I came up
watching Lethal Weapons
>> you know Ferris Peeler's Day Off Bad
>> things just don't seem to look like that
anymore.
>> Um I think I mean I it's interesting.
Yeah. Like we we we try to do it on the
studio a little bit. you know, there's
the stuff with me and Ike, like I think
ultimately like that is a relationship
we do keep like it's probably the most
emotionally kind of constant
relationship on the show and um but I I
don't know why other people don't
explore it. I I I know we have just done
it a lot and so I think it's something
as we look to it's like I mean it's
funny we did this roast many years ago
um and Nick Kroll had a joke that really
hit close to home where he was making
fun of me and Evan on the roast and he
was like what are you guys going to make
another movie where they're friends then
they stop being friends and at the end
they're friends again and I remember
like being like oh yeah that's
[laughter] that that is every movie
we've ever made. And not to say that's a
bad thing, but the fact that he could
boil it down that that simply into a
joke, I think we were like, "Yeah, maybe
we should move away from that a little
bit." [laughter]
H um
I'm going to ask you about um
a friendship that you did have a public
break with, which was your friendship uh
with James Franco after allegations of
sexual misconduct were leveled against
him. I am curious about how you work
through that decision and did that
change the way you think about
friendship at all?
Um
I mean I'm trying to think [laughter]
how much I want to personally share
about this.
>> I understand that
>> I
>> the reason I ask is this. I think as a
culture we are still grappling with if
and how we allow people who've behaved
badly back into our lives back into the
culture. And so I was sort of wondering
about,
you know, what what was a very seinal
relationship for you.
>> Yeah. Like I honestly think the nuance
of it is too personal for me to get into
right now. like it it is a very personal
thing and I think there's like the
public facing side of it which I've
spoken about and and and I and I have
the same stance publicly that that that
I've had and I think the proof is in the
pudding more than anything is just I
haven't I I have not worked with him in
years, you know. Um, but like the
personal side of it is just it's it's so
nuanced and it involves people that I
don't know if I should be dragging into
this and and and I think it's you know I
don't know what I would benefit from
getting [laughter] deeply into it in
this moment. Um, but I'd say everything
I've said I nothing is nothing has
changed really since since the last time
I've talked about all this and I haven't
worked with him in a really long time
and I have no plans to
>> Do you talk to him?
>> I haven't talked to him in a long time.
No.
>> So, I want to ask you about your
on-screen relationships with women
because um I love Platonic
uh where you have a deep friendship with
Rose Burn who's also like a regular
collaborator with you.
>> Yeah, she's great. Um, so
how have you sort of thought about the
female male dynamic on screen? Because
Platonic literally is again about
friendship. It's not romantic. Yeah.
>> It's so interesting considering your
your previous comment, you know,
comments about not finding the romantic
dynamic interesting that this is a
central [laughter] a central story line
here.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think it can again I
think it can be like reductive. Like I
think like for so long that was the only
dynamic there was between a man and
woman on screen essentially was was a
romantic one. And so I think part of it
is just like what's what is new that
that hasn't been explored but is true to
all of our lives or many of our lives
anyway. And and and it's funny like I
think so much overthinking it in some
ways goes into like
what makes a funny female character in
relation to a funny male character, you
know? And do they have to be smart? Do
they have to be dumb? Is it dumb? Is it
bad if they're dumb? Is it sexist if
they're dumb? Or is it sexist if they're
smart? Like I've seen I've seen both
things argued. I've seen, [laughter] you
know, it's like, oh, you don't want to
get rid of the dumb character, but like
that's often the funnier characters, the
dumb character, you know what I mean?
And the worst choices a character makes,
often the more comedicly they can
perform as a as an actor, you know? Um,
but they're dumb, you know? And so, like
I
>> I mean, Marilyn Monroe is one of the
great comedic actors. [laughter]
>> Exactly. So I think like
to me what I've found with to be the
healthiest conversations is just like
what creates the most comedic potential
if that is what you are trying to do you
know um and to not
try to I think as soon as you start to
think too globally and lose sight of
like the thing you're making is when you
get lost in the weeds a little bit and
and and and
>> what does that mean? So, so that idea of
like having to
>> workshop everything to see like it
doesn't offend some group.
>> Yeah. or or like or or or or like if you
start to feel like well like what we are
saying with this is like men are like
this and women are like this like that
to me is so much harder to wrap my head
around than like what I'm saying is this
guy is like this and this woman is like
this like and it is specific to this
[laughter]
and and what we are doing is making it
work for this and and as long as it
works it's good you know what I mean and
as long as it it It's funny. You you
you're not thinking
is he dumb or is he smart or is she dumb
or is he like you're just thinking it
works and and all of a sudden all the
stigmas and the and the history and the
conversation around it kind of falls by
the wayside because you're just watching
a thing that works. You know what I
mean? And so I think that's what I've
seen work is like with Platonic. It just
is,
[snorts] you know, Rose's character is
like doing incredibly stupid things all
the time, making incredibly poor
choices, being irresponsible,
putting people in danger, putting people
at risk, doing things that again, I
guess you could like philosophically
argue like is it is it great to portray
anyone like that? Is it good? Are we
what are we saying about women when we
do this? What are we saying about men
when we do this? But I think what they
do so well on that show is like they're
not trying to do that. They're like what
makes this character
allow Rose Burn to give the funniest
performance she could possibly give and
be as funny in these scenes as she could
possibly be. And I think like that's
really how I think of it is like I find
like these kind of heavier conversations
about theme and society and culture like
hopefully that's just within you and and
will come out through your work because
it's organic to your perspective.
>> Do you think Hollywood has become more
riskaverse?
>> Yes. [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> Yeah. 100%. Yes. Um period. end of like
and we've just seen it like you know
Superbat's a good example like when we
made that movie like they bought our
script they hired a director they said
it would have a $20 million budget and
it would start shooting in August or in
April of that year. Um and it would come
out uh in like August of the following
year.
That's it. like and then we cast the
movie. We found a director for the
movie, we made it according to their
schedule and we released it on the date
they chose. That would never happen
today in a 100 million years. No studio
would just buy a script, give it a
release date, cast it, and then make it
like now. Everything has to be in place
before they will decide whether or not
they're making it. Who's the director?
Who are the actors? Are they famous
enough? Do they have big enough names?
If not, then we got to change. We got to
get different ones or else we won't make
it. And I know we want it to start
shooting in April and release it next
summer, but if we don't have the right
actors, we're not going to do that
because we think these actors will get
us more money than these actors, even
though they might not be the funniest
actors for the role. They might be more
commercial for the role. Not to say you
won't ultimately get to the funniest
people for the role, but you'll have to
go through an incredible process to do
it in a way that is all due to risk
aversion. You know, like Amy Pascal was
willing to just say like, "Make this
movie. You'll put the funniest people in
it. That will make the best version of
the movie, and the best version of this
movie is what will make us the most
money." That is not said anymore really
in in Hollywood. As I was preparing for
this interview, I was looking at your
list of credits and you know, it's just
astonishing when you sort of sit with it
and and look at it. Producing the hit
superhero series, The Boys, acting in
The Invite, voicing Kung Fu Panda,
Platonic, [laughter] The Studio. I mean,
there's just like a lot um there. And I
was recently watching Jud Appatile's
excellent documentary on Mel Brooks.
>> Oh, yeah. and thinking
that you're our generation's Mel Brooks.
[laughter] I mean, you've already made
comedies that have sort of defined a
generation. You're only 44.
I mean, is he someone that you've
modeled your career on?
Um, honestly, what's I love Bro, I I
more model my career off of like Harold
Ramos and um, you know, and I would look
at like,
you know, not not not profession, you
know, not not on a personal level, but I
was a big my my parents loved Woody
Allen movies when I was a kid, you know,
and I was sort of inundated with like
Hannah and her sisters um and and things
like that and um, and and I love and Mel
Brooks. I mean, I I like it's funny like
Space Balls, like I I watched Space
Balls before Star Wars probably
[laughter] 100 million times, but um I I
never What's funny is I never had like
too close of a plan or too specific of a
goal or I never looked at anyone's
career really and was like, I want that
career. I I
I think from a very young I think when I
was in my early 20s, I sort of surpassed
any expectation I could have had for
myself in many ways. and and and after
that I sort of
saw that like the greatest gift I could
give to myself was to like do whatever
creatively excited me in whatever moment
I was in and and and
not working towards some thing where
like I'll only be happy if I do this and
if once I do this I'll know I've made it
you know like I I I I felt like I made
it when I was 23 years old [laughter]
and so after that I was like, I I think
I should just do what seems exciting to
me. And and and it is funny because
sometimes I will do an interview and
look back and I'll be like, "Wow, I'm
doing a lot of it's a lot of stuff." And
it's and it's a weird array of stuff and
but I look and it's a stuff it's stuff
that truly reflects my taste and who I
am and my sensibilities. Me and Evan
grew up reading comic books. We were
that's one of the first things we bonded
on. And so getting to adapt comic books,
Garn is one of my favorite comic book
writers of all time. So getting to make
Preacher and The Boys and things like
that, especially like, you know, I
remember when like David Fincher was
attached to make Preacher and then it
fell apart and we ended up making it and
The Boys, like every big director in
Hollywood was attached to adapt The Boys
at one point or another and we just sort
of like hung out in the background for a
decade until everyone else fell through
and we became the the most viable option
to to produce.
>> They turned it down.
>> It wasn't even turned down. It
>> it didn't work out. it just didn't work
out. They kept making versions. It It is
tricky and we changed it quite a bit
from the source material, I think, to
make it into something that was far more
uh digestible as as as visual
entertainment than than it would have
been otherwise, you know. Um, but I I I
think like the greatest
gift I have in my career is that I truly
we can kind of do anything and we can
make dramatic things and comedic things
and animated things and live action
things and things like Ninja Turtles
honestly like has been one of my
favorite things we've made in years and
like I love that movie and I think it's
so good and so reflective of my taste
and my sensibility and what I loved when
I was a kid but also infused with like
the highest level of writing and
storytelling and plot construction that
I could fathomably have helped conceive
of in that time in my life. And I look
at how it's constructed from like a
structure and story standpoint and I'm
like legitimately very proud of it and I
think like oh that is like as well
structured a film as you can make in
many ways. And my hope is that our work
just clearly has had the highest level
of thought and care and consideration
put into it no matter what it is. And
like as riskaverse as Hollywood is, I'm
always trying to instill in the people
that we work with like if we can take a
swing, let's take it. Like it's not
often you get if if no one's looking,
let's do something crazy. If no one's if
we're in this moment where no one's
paying attention, like let's let's make
Ninja Turtles look insane. like let's
let's really push it and and to me I
also hope our work has that sort of like
intrepid spirit like a a spirit of that
we are going [music] for it and that
we're we are not playing it safe but we
are swinging for the fences you know
>> Seth Rogan [music]
thank you so much we'll speak again
>> thank you [laughter]
>> on the interview we talked to our guest
[music] twice so a few days later I
talked to Seth Rogan again and asked him
about one major way he's really
influenced the culture through his
championing of weed.
Seth Rogan, so glad to talk to you
again.
>> We're back.
>> We're [clears throat] back. All right.
Um, in our first conversation, we talked
about uh opportunities for young people
coming up in Hollywood and how the
industry has changed and possibly, you
know, someone like you wouldn't have the
same sort of opportunities to make
movies today. And then, you know, we
just saw two YouTubers dominate the box
office. One of them, um, Kane Parsons,
the director of Back Rooms, is 20. Uh,
he was 16 when he made the YouTube video
the movie is based on. Um, and then
Curry Barker, the director of Obsession,
is 26. These have just been like huge
successes. I mean, what do you make of
that?
Um, I mean honestly it totally fits in
line with advice that I have been giving
people for years when they come up to me
which is I they say I want to make it in
movies. I want to do something um and I
tell them like make stuff like and make
stuff that that is really good. And I'm
like trust me people like me are like
begging that praying that they see
something impressive. Um, I met with
Kane when I think he was 16 or 17 years
old because I watched his YouTube
videos.
>> Oh, wow.
>> Um, and I remember the people at my
company being like, "Why are we meeting
with a 16-year-old?" And [laughter] I
was like,
>> trust me, this this this kid is very
talented, you know, and so ever since
our phones had cameras on them,
basically, I've been that has become my
default advice to people. And now with
Blender and visual effects and things
like that, people like on literally on a
laptop you can make a thing that that
that you know when I was growing up
would cost you tens of millions of
dollars, you know. Um it it has really
opened the door for people who are
skilled and dedicated to really show
what they're they're capable of, you
know, and and I think that that's a
great thing. Yeah. [clears throat]
Hollywood always seems to be in the
middle of like an angsty crisis. Um,
Variety called um, what just happened
with these two YouTubers a quote
tectonic shift in Hollywood that sent
shock waves through the [laughter]
industry.
I do wonder um, first of all what you
make of that. I mean, do you think
that's overstating what just happened?
Because I guess what I think is so
alluring to executives is that
YouTubers, as you just mentioned, have
cheap technology that they can use to
get millions of eyeballs. They can
workshop an idea um and then have a
built-in audience. So, I guess it takes
the guesswork out of selling tickets.
So, I'm just wondering how you see it
since you already were tracking him for
so long.
>> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I I I I don't I don't
know if like online engagement
necessarily
translates into like ticket sales
definitely. You know what I mean? Um,
but I think to your first part of the
question, like [gasps]
I think it's overstating that it's a
tectonic shift
[laughter] if your assumption is that
these shifts don't happen constantly in
Hollywood, you know, like and I think
that's something me and Evan talk about
a lot is we, you know, like it's from
network. Like I always think of that
line in network where Robert Duval is
like it's a volatile industry and the
investors are like well we we shouldn't
be why are we financially invested in a
in a volatile industry and and but I
think by definition it is a volatile
industry you know um and and it changes
and and it's almost it's almost the one
defining feature of Hollywood from my
experience in it is that it there is
every few years a tectonic shift and
thank god it's not really my job to
be like overly invested in these trends,
I guess, and I'm able to sort of keep my
head down and and and we're aware of
them again and and and we'll kind of
ride the waves of them if it fits in
with our own creative ambitions, you
know, and I'm more than happy to like
say in a pitch how whatever I'm doing
maybe fits into the trend of what I hope
the executive I'm pitching to or assume
the executive I'm pitching to is for but
um I to me yeah like I it's not that
shocking to me that something like this
happened. there's like a whole
generation of people who have access to
essentially professional film making um
equipment for uh a price that again when
I was young was like completely
unobtainable and um and they're and
they're making their own stuff and
studios are are are making tons of money
off of it which again is not that
different than like when Lonely Island
and those guys made YouTube videos and
and people hired them or when the Broad
City girls made their show on YouTube
and people hired them or when you know
Nathan Fielder all the a lot of people
like in comedy it's a little more
commonplace I think but I think now with
technology it's allowing people who
really thrive in different genres genres
that traditionally maybe require more
resources um to really kind of show what
they can do and again and studios will
be more than happy to capitalize off of
that [laughter]
whenever they see an opportunity to
>> let me ask you just as an aside what
makes a good pitch
>> um I think a good pitch is short
generally speaking honestly. Like I I
and I think a pitch
[snorts]
um and I'm not I I I'm not someone who I
assume is great at pitching honestly.
You know what I mean? Like
>> people [laughter] pitch you. I'm sure.
So I'm just curious
>> if the idea is genuinely good. The pitch
is kind of easy. And I'm actually get
kind of suspicious of people who are
like good pitchers if the idea, you
know, like like to me like the
quintessential pitch I'm used to hearing
is from like a nervous comedy writer who
has terrible people skills, who has no
ability to [laughter] like present
themselves in in a way that is nearly
representative of what they're capable
of. You know what I mean? And so when
someone comes in too slick and and
flashy, uh, I I get a little suspicious,
honestly. Um, but I'm just looking for
the idea. I know myself, I've had so
many ideas that are so hard to pitch. I
remember trying to pitch people
Pineapple Express and them just looking
at us like we were insane and trying to
pitch This is the end and people looking
at us like we were crazy. Like with the
studio when we pitched that, our only
like thought was to like way overd
deliver and to like attach like I I'm I
kind of more approach our pitching from
like a business standpoint of like what
makes it easy for these people whose
entire job is like risk mitigation to
say yes to me. And so they could see
like, oh, it has a cast and I don't have
to imagine like who's this character,
like it's this person, who's this
character, it's this person. Like, and
and I think it showed like we really
like were geared towards making the show
and not just towards like writing the
show for money, which is another thing a
lot of people do, you [laughter] know.
H um one of the other sort of big
disruptors in Hollywood is of course AI
and you've been you know vocally against
AI's use in writing and in animation. Do
you feel like you're standing against
the tide and and why are you standing
against the tide? Because again I guess
it's like a a [snorts]
>> you know I think the executives view it
as like a cost savings, right? because I
think they see it as a way to yeah
execute in a in in a way that doesn't
require as many resources.
>> Yeah. And I think like I guess I look to
the different sectors of the industry.
Like I know a lot of people who work in
visual effects who think who who are
visual effects artists truly who think
AI can help them do their work better.
But they work in a field where
technology is something they are having
to navigate in order to do their job to
what they view as the best of their
abilities. I don't think writing has
that problem. You know what I mean? I
don't think if you're having a hard time
writing that technology is the thing
that is in your way. Um I think it it is
either
your your dedication or your skills or
your abilities or just the amount of
time you spent doing it and and and and
the amount you have to develop your own
abilities to match what it is you're
you're hoping you're you're putting out
in the world. You know, and and I'm only
speaking for my own personal interest in
it. You know what I mean? Like I know
other writers who who do use
[clears throat] uh you know chat GPT to
to to kind of have conversations I guess
about their ideas. It's just not a thing
that has ever interested me and and it's
and it's not a thing that I ever was
even remotely [clears throat] tempted to
engage with because I have a writing
process that I really enjoy. You know
what I mean? But I do understand how you
if you were alone somewhere [laughter]
in your apartment writing, trying to
write a script, having no one to talk to
about it, having no no one in your life
cares that you're doing this, I
definitely understand the temptation to
to use a like artificial intelligence as
some sort of sounding board because
working alone is very hard and and and
scary, you know. But I think I would
advise people to seek out some sort of
creative community and even like the the
the worst person you know who has any
interest in writing is probably more
helpful to you ultimately than some
[gasps and laughter]
like artificial intelligence program to
talk about your writing with.
>> You're not going to have an Evan AI bot
to be.
>> Exactly. [laughter]
>> All right. Hard pivot. Um, as I
mentioned, uh, you were on Howard Stern,
where you told a lot of stories about
drugs. Yeah.
>> And you said, um, the only time that you
were drug-free was on a trip to
Singapore when drugs are [laughter]
illegal on penalty of death.
>> And I really was curious because you
didn't describe the experience of what
it was like not to be high um, for the
first time [laughter] since you were a
kid.
>> It was fine. It's not It's not that
weird. Like uh, I Yeah, I I It was fine.
I and I go straight like it's not like I
in my day-to-day life I am not in a
position where I can just smoke weed
literally all day every day at all times
like I I you know last week we were
filming in some skyscraper downtown you
I couldn't smoke weed in there
[laughter] and so I went I went all day
without smoking weed and it's pretty you
know it's not like I'm freaking out or
anything. Um it's just you know I'm a
little happier if I can smoke weed all
day that's all.
>> Yeah. I mean, you've helped normalize
cannabis use. Um, when I think about
Pineapple Express to today, it's been a
complete sea change, and I think it's
No, but I think it's a real testament to
the cultural impact of your work. Was
that an explicit aim or just sort of a
fortunate byproduct?
>> Um, I'd say it was a I'd say it was sort
of a specific aim, but a very like
personal one. Like I don't think our
goal was like
>> if this works we will change cultures
view on weed. I think it was more like
we don't like how we are stigmatized as
people who smoke weed. And I think the
ultimate way to kind of show that people
who smoke a lot of weed are not who you
think they are is to
really proficiently make an entire movie
about people who smoke weed implicitly
by people who smoke weed that is for
people who smoke weed, but is actually
like has the thought and care and
consideration and and and technical kind
of acumen put into it that that like any
real Hollywood movie has. And I think to
us that's kind of what had never been
done before. Friday is probably the
closest one, you know. Um, and I love
that movie, but but even that was sort
of like a very I think they move they
made that movie for like almost no
money, you know. It was a very small
movie and and and um and I think that
movie kind of had an outsiz impact. But
um yeah, we were really kind of on a
personal level trying to be like what if
we made like a real like a real weed
movie and people saw that like it wasn't
this like outcast thing for idiots. It
was a thing that that that that could be
as mainstream as as anything, you know,
and we were shocked when it was so
embraced honestly. And that today when I
go to the weed store, the fact that
there's like Pineapple Express weed that
exists is like so funny. I think and and
like a real direct kind of descendant of
of the movie. And I think the fact that
yeah that it was a weed movie that and
even when we were promoting that movie
like it was not easy like you know they
people I remember going on TRL which
dates this story and like really
literally right before I went on they
were like oh and you can't talk about
weed at all. And I'm like I'm here to
promote a movie like the movie's title
is is is weed. Like what am I going to
talk about? And they were like, "I don't
know. Figure it out." Well, you can't
you literally can't mention weed on on
this show.
>> How do you promote that without
mentioning weed?
>> Well, what I think I did is I did talk
about it and then they like aired it
once and then it scrubbed it from TRL
existence.
[laughter and gasps]
Yeah, it was tough.
>> Okay. Um, before I say goodbye, you're
filming the studio today. Anything that
you can say about the new season?
Anything at all?
>> Um, [laughter]
I don't know. [clears throat] Um, I can
say it's it's
it is even it is far more ambitious than
the first season. And and I honestly
like there's been many times I've been
on set this season and I've been I I've
been truly amazed at at what in a way
that has offered me a lot of
gratification and pride. like I've been
amazed at what we've been able to pull
off and the people we've been able to
talk into doing the show and and the
people I've gotten to work with. Um I
and and I've watched the episodes and I
really feel as though I'm pushing myself
more and more. I'm excited and nervous
for people to see it, but as we make it,
it feels like we have, you know,
[snorts and music] tried to up our game
and and and there are moments where I
really feel like we we we are doing
something that I'm very [music] proud
of. Yeah.
>> Seth Rogan, thank you so much.
>> Thank you so much. Good to see you
again.
>> Good to see you, too. Bye
>> bye.
[music]
>> I'm Lulu Garcia Navaro.
>> And I'm David Maresy. and we're the
hosts of the interview, an audio and
video podcast from the New [music] York
Times.
>> Every week we interview fascinating and
influential people from all walks of
life.
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel so
you'll never miss an episode.